# PRINCIPLES OF FLIGHT - COMPLETE ANSWERS WITH OPTIONS

## 1. The static pressure of gases work...
- ***in all directions***
- only in flow direction.
- only in the direction of the total pressure.
- only vertical to the flow direction.

## 2. Bernoulli's equation for frictionless, incompressible gases states that...
- total pressure = dynamic pressure - static pressure.
- static pressure = total pressure + dynamic pressure.
- dynamic pressure = total pressure + static pressure.
- ***total pressure = dynamic pressure + static pressure***

## 3. When air flows through a pipe with changing cross sections, the static pressure changes. The total pressure...
- increases proportionally.
- reduces proportionally.
- ***does not change***
- changes proportionally.

## 4. If surrounded by airflow (v>0), any arbitrarily shaped body produces...
- drag.
- constant drag at any speed.
- ***drag and lift***
- lift without drag.

## 5. The "angle of attack" is the angle between...
- the aircraft's longitudinal axis and the relative airflow.
- the aircraft's longitudinal axis and the chord line.
- ***the chord line and the relative airflow***
- the chord line of the elevator and the chord line of the wing.

## 6. All aerodynamic forces can be considered to act on a single point. This point is called...
- center of gravity.
- ***center of pressure***
- lift point.
- transition point.

## 7. Which answer describes the term "aerodynamic force"?
- Component of the lifting force in airflow direction
- Sum of the vectors of lift and weight force
- ***Sum of the vectors of lift and drag force***
- Difference of the vectors of lift and weight force

## 8. "Profile depth" is the distance between the...
- ***leading edge and trailing edge of a profile***
- wing root and the wing tip.
- profile's lower and upper edge at the thickest point.
- profile's lower and upper edge at the thinnest point.

## 9. The illustrated profile is a / an...
- normal profile.
- ***symmetrical profile***
- laminar profile.
- S-profile.

## 10. The ratio of span and mean chord length is referred to as...
- wing sweep.
- trapezium shape.
- tapering.
- ***aspect ratio***

## 11. Which wing shape has the highest induced drag?
- ***Rectangular wing***
- Trapeze-shaped wing
- Ellipsoidal wing
- Triangular-shaped wing

## 12. When the rigging angle of incidence of a wing is smaller on the outer side than on the inner (on the root), that is called...
- ***geometric twist***
- V-shape.
- aerodynamic twist.
- aerodynamic torsion.

## 13. The start of vortex development is created during which phase of flight?
- While setting take-off power during take-off run
- While setting flaps to lower position
- As soon as the aircraft starts moving
- ***When lift is being generated during rotation***

## 14. What occurs at the "transition point"?
- The change from turbulent to laminar airflow
- ***The change from laminar to turbulent airflow***
- The lateral tilting of the aircraft with stall
- Reaching the maximum lift coefficient

## 15. What pattern can be found at the stagnation point?
- The laminar boundary layer changes into a turbulent boundary layer
- ***Streamlines are divided into airflow above and below the profile***
- The boundary layer starts separating on the upper surface of the profile
- All aerodynamic forces can be considered as attacking at this single point

## 16. Which of the following options describes the pressure pattern at a lift-generating wing profile passed by airflow?
- Pressure below remains unchanged, lower pressure is created above the profile
- High pressure is created above, lower pressure below the profile
- ***Low pressure is created above, higher pressure below the profile***
- Pressure above remains unchanged, higher pressure is created below the profile

## 17. The position of the center of pressure at a positively shaped profile...
- moves to the trailing edge while the angle of attack becomes smaller.
- does not move since it is independent of the angle of attack.
- ***moves to the leading edge while the angle of attack becomes smaller***
- is located at approximately 25% of the chord, measured from the leading edge.

## 18. A symmetrical profile...
- does not produce lift.
- has the least induced drag with a positive attack angle.
- ***has a non-moving center of pressure***
- can only be flown upside-down.

## 19. Which statement about lift and angle of attack is correct?
- ***Increasing the angle of attack too far may result in a loss of lift and an airflow separation***
- Increasing the angle of attack results in less lift being generated by the aerofoil
- Decreasing the angle of attack results in more lift being generated by the aerofoil
- Too large angles of attack can lead to an exponential increase in lift

## 20. Which statement about the airflow around an aerofoil is correct if the angle of attack decreases?
- The center of pressure moves forward
- The stagnation point moves down
- The stagnation point remains constant
- ***The center of pressure moves aft***

## 21. The lift on an airfoil can be directly changed during flight...
- by changing the angle of incidence.
- ***by changing the angle of attack***
- by changing the trim.
- under no circumstances.

## 22. Which option states a benefit of aerodynamic washout?
- ***At high angles of attack the effectiveness of the aileron is retained as long as possible***
- Structurally the wing is made more rigid against rotation
- Greater hardness because the wing can withstand more torsion forces
- With the washout the form drag reduces at high speeds

## 23. Where does "separation" on the aerofoil set in and in which direction does it move with increasing angle of attack?
- On the leading edge of the profile, movement in airflow direction
- On the entire upper side of the profile at the same time
- ***At the profile's upper side at the trailing edge, movement opposite to the airflow direction***
- On the profile's lower side behind the transition point, movement in airflow direction

## 24. Which statement concerning the angle of attack is correct?
- Increasing the angle of attack results in decreasing lift
- The angle of attack cannot be negative
- The angle of attack is constant throughout the flight
- ***A too large angle of attack may result in a loss of lift***

## 25. How do lift and drag change with decreasing air density (all other parameters remaining constant)?
- They do not change
- Lift will increase, drag will decrease
- ***Lift and drag will decrease***
- Lift will decrease, drag will increase

## 26. Lift depends on...
- lift coefficient, speed, air temperature, projected airfoil area.
- ***lift coefficient, square of the speed, air density, projected airfoil area***
- flight weight force, speed, air density, projected airfoil area.
- flight weight force, engine power, air density, projected airfoil area.

## 27. The drag coefficient...
- ***cannot be lower than a non-negative, minimal value***
- may range from zero to an infinite positive value.
- increases with increasing airspeed.
- is proportional to the lift coefficient.

## 28. Which of the following answers characterises a thick profile compared to a thin profile at the same speed? The thick profile generates...
- more drag and less lift.
- ***more drag and more lift***
- more drag and equal lift.
- equal drag and more lift.

## 29. How does the drag of the aircraft change when the speed is doubled? It...
- doubles.
- remains the same.
- ***quadruples***
- Triples

## 30. Pressure compensation on an aerofoil occurs at the...
- leading edge.
- wing tips.
- ***trailing edge***
- wing roots.

## 31. Which of the following options is likely to produce large induced drag?
- Large aspect ratio
- Tapered wings
- ***Small aspect ratio***
- Low lift coefficients

## 32. Induced drag is generated...
- at the outer part of the ailerons.
- ***at the trailing edge of the wing***
- at the front part of the aisle.
- at the lower part of the gear.

## 33. Where is interference drag generated?
- At the ailerons
- At the gear
- Near the wing tips
- ***At the wing root***

## 34. Pressure drag, interference drag and friction drag belong to the group of the...
- induced drag.
- total drag.
- ***parasite drag***
- main resistance.

## 35. Which effect does a decreasing airspeed have on the induced drag during a horizontal and stable cruise flight?
- ***The induced drag will increase***
- The induced drag will slightly decrease
- The induced drag will remain constant
- The induced drag will collapse

## 36. How do induced drag and parasite drag change with increasing airspeed during a horizontal and stable cruise flight?
- ***Induced drag decreases and parasite drag increases***
- Induced drag increases and parasite drag increases
- Parasite drag decreases and induced drag increases
- Parasite drag decreases and induced drag decreases

## 37. Which body of the same cross-sectional area has the smallest drag with the same inflowing air speed?
- Plain disc
- ***Streamlined body***
- Hollow hemisphere
- Sphere

## 38. How do lift and drag change when approaching a stall condition?
- Lift and drag increase
- Lift and drag decrease
- ***Lift decreases and drag increases***
- Lift increases and drag decreases

## 39. During a stall, the lift...
- increases and drag decreases.
- increases and drag increases.
- decreases and drag decreases.
- ***decreases and drag increases***

## 40. The critical angle of attack...
- ***is independent of the weight***
- decreases with forward center of gravity position.
- increases with backward center of gravity position.
- changes with increasing weight.

## 41. A strong decrease of lift can suddenly occur...
- ***when getting close to the stall speed***
- when the flaps are extended.
- when the engine power is reduced.
- when the propeller is set to low RPM / large pitch.

## 42. The stall warning will be activated just before reaching which speed?
- VNE
- ***VS***
- VR
- VX

## 43. With increasing wing load, the minimum flight speed...
- decreases.
- ***increases***
- remains constant.
- is dependent only on the flap position.

## 44. The "twist" of the aerofoil causes...
- the airflow on the outer wing to stall sooner at high angles of attack and the induced drag to decrease.
- the airflow on the inner wing to stall sooner at high angles of attack and the induced drag to decrease.
- ***the airflow to stall later in the area of the aileron and the induced drag to increase***
- the airflow to stall sooner in the area of the aileron and the induced drag to decrease.

## 45. In motorplanes the stall warning is usually activated by a change of...
- the center of pressure.
- the center of gravity.
- ***the stagnation point***
- the transition point.

## 46. Which statement regarding a spin is correct?
- ***During recovery the ailerons should be kept neutral***
- During the spin the speed constantly increases
- Only very old aeroplanes have a risk of spinning
- During recovery the ailerons should be crossed

## 47. How do lift and drag change when setting flaps to a lower position?
- ***Lift increases, drag increases***
- Lift increases, drag decreases
- Lift decreases, drag increases
- Lift decreases, drag decreases

## 48. With regard to flaps, which of the following options provides a lift-increasing effect?
- Decreasing the form drag
- ***Increasing the aerofoil camber***
- Decreasing the angle of attack
- Lowering the induced drag

## 49. What kind of landing aids may not be retracted suddenly near the ground?
- Spoilers
- Airbrakes
- ***Flaps***
- Schempp-Hirth flaps

## 50. A take-off with flaps in take-off position causes...
- an increased rate of climb.
- a decrease in drag.
- an increased acceleration.
- ***a shortening of the take-off run***

## 51. Which effect (among others) causes lift to increase when extending the landing flaps?
- Reduction of the form drag
- ***Enlargement of the profile camber***
- Reduction of the angle of attack
- Reduction of the induced drag

## 52. How does extending the flaps to landing position affect the final approach (engine idle)?
- Minimum speed is smaller, the glide path remains the same
- Minimum speed is greater, the glide path remains the same
- Minimum speed remains the same, the glide path is steeper
- ***Minimum speed is smaller, the glide path is steeper***

## 53. When taking off with the flaps extended (take-off position)...
- the climb rate increases.
- the rotation speed increases.
- ***the take-off ground roll is shortened***
- the acceleration increases.

## 54. The laminar layer on the aerofoil is located between...
- the transition point and the separation point.
- ***the stagnation point and the transition point***
- the stagnation point and the center of pressure.
- the transition point and the center of pressure.

## 55. What types of boundary layers can be found on an aerofoil?
- Laminar boundary layer along the complete upper surface with non-separated airflow
- Turbulent boundary layer along the complete upper surface with separated airflow
- Turbulent layer at the leading wing areas, laminar boundary layer at the trailing areas
- ***Laminar layer at the leading wing areas, turbulent boundary layer at the trailing areas***

## 56. Which answer explains the term "boundary layer"?
- The turbulences which arise with the combination of different assemblies of the aircraft
- ***The layer in which the airflow speed increases from zero up to full speed of the airflow***
- The circulating part of the airfoil-fuselage flows
- The air molecules which are subject to turbulence after the transition point

## 57. The laminar boundary layer is situated between...
- transition point and trim edge.
- transition point and separation point.
- stagnation point and pressure point.
- ***stagnation point and transition point***

## 58. In icing conditions, at which point will the most ice arise on an aeroplane?
- On the upper and lower side of the control surfaces
- On the pitot tube and the static pressure ports
- On the upper und lower side of the wing's trailing edge
- ***On all frontal areas of the airframe, the wings, and the tail***

## 59. What structural item provides lateral stability to an airplane?
- Vertical tail
- Elevator
- Differential aileron deflection
- ***Wing dihedral***

## 60. Which statement describes a situation of static stability?
- An aircraft distorted by external impact will maintain the deflected position
- ***An aircraft distorted by external impact will return to the original position***
- An aircraft distorted by external impact will tend to an even more deflected position
- An aircraft distorted by external impact can return to its original position by rudder input

## 61. Which force does NOT act during straight and level flight?
- Lift force
- ***Centrifugal force***
- Gravitational force
- Drag force

## 62. Stability around the lateral axis (longitudinal stability) is achieved by...
- ***the effects and construction of the elevator unit***
- the use of a V-tail.
- a variable rigging angle of incidence of the wing.
- a swept back wing.

## 63. Stability of the vertical axis can be achieved...
- by the vertical stabilizer only.
- only by the rudder.
- by the pendulum effect of the fuselage and wing dihedral.
- ***by the vertical tail and the fuselage shape***

## 64. Which constructive feature provides longitudinal stability to an airplane in normal configuration (empennage at tail)?
- Differential aileron deflection
- ***Downforce at the elevator***
- Positive wing dihedral
- Trim plate at the tailfin

## 65. "Longitudinal stability" is referred to as stability around which axis?
- Vertical axis
- Longitudinal axis
- ***Lateral axis***
- Propeller axis

## 66. What is the purpose of the horizontal stabiliser?
- Commencing turns around the vertical axis
- Stabilising the aircraft around the longitudinal axis
- Stabilising the aircraft around the vertical axis
- ***Stabilising the aircraft around the lateral axis***

## 67. Stability around which axis is strongly influenced by the center of gravity's position?
- ***Longitudinal axis***
- Vertical axis
- Gravity axis
- Lateral axis

## 68. What structural item provides directional stability to an airplane?
- Wing dihedral
- ***Large vertical tail***
- Large elevator
- Differential aileron deflection

## 69. Rotation around the vertical axis is called...
- ***yawing***
- slipping.
- rolling.
- pitching.

## 70. The movement around the vertical axis of the aircraft is called...
- rolling.
- pitching.
- ***yawing***
- slipping.

## 71. The critical angle of attack...
- decreases with a rear centre of gravity.
- ***is not changed by different aircraft weights***
- increases with a front centre of gravity.
- is changed by different aircraft weights.

## 72. The elevator moves an aeroplane around the...
- vertical axis.
- ***lateral axis***
- longitudinal axis.
- elevator axis.

## 73. The elevator deflection for a specific maneuver...
- ***is increased with a front centre of gravity***
- is increased at high speeds.
- is increased with a rear centre of gravity.
- is independent of the speed.

## 74. How can a pilot maintain the altitude during a co-ordinated steep turn?
- The rudder is operated into the opposite direction
- The rudder is operated in the rotating direction
- ***The elevator is pulled accordingly***
- The trim is set to nose-heavy

## 75. What has to be considered with regard to the center of gravity position?
- ***Only correct loading can assure a correct and safe center of gravity position***
- By moving the elevator trim tab, the center of gravity can be shifted into a correct position.
- By moving the aileron trim tab, the center of gravity can be shifted into a correct position.
- The center of gravity's position can only be determined during flight.

## 76. Deflecting the rudder to the left causes...
- yawing of the aircraft to the right.
- ***yawing of the aircraft to the left***
- pitching of the aircraft to the left.
- pitching of the aircraft to the right.

## 77. The adverse-yaw effect can occur...
- during steep turns with more than 45° bank angle.
- with rudder deflection.
- on the elevator at every speed range.
- ***with aileron deflection during slow-flight conditions***

## 78. Which control affects primarily the movement around the longitudinal axis?
- Rudder
- ***Aileron***
- Elevator
- Trim

## 79. Differential aileron deflection is used to...
- reduce wake turbulence.
- avoid a stall at low angles of attack.
- ***keep the adverse yaw low***
- increase the rate of descent.

## 80. What is the advantage of differential aileron movement?
- The adverse yaw is higher
- The ratio of the drag coefficient to lift coefficient is increased
- ***The drag of the downwards deflected aileron is lowered and the adverse yaw is smaller***
- The total lift remains constant during aileron deflection

## 81. Which answer describes the term "adverse yaw momentum"?
- A yawing momentum in the same direction as the rolling momentum
- ***A yawing momentum opposite to the direction of the rolling momentum***
- A rotation momentum around the longitudinal axis opposite to the aileron deflection
- A rolling momentum additional to the rudder deflection

## 82. The aerodynamic rudder balance...
- reduces the control surfaces.
- ***reduces the control stick forces***
- delays the stall.
- improves the rudder effectiveness.

## 83. What is the function of the static rudder balance?
- ***To prevent control surface flutter***
- To limit the control stick forces
- To increase the control stick forces
- To trim the controls almost without any force

## 84. During cruise flight with constant power setting, an aircraft shows a permanent tendency to raise the nose. How can this tendency be eliminated?
- By shifting the center of gravity backwards
- By elevator deflection upwards
- By deflecting the elevator trim tab downwards
- ***By deflecting the elevator trim tab upwards***

## 85. What is a bendable trim tab?
- A balance mass at a control surface
- A term for a rudder balance
- A trim device adjustable in flight
- ***A fixed tab attached to the rudder or the aileron***

## 86. The trim tab at the elevator is defelected upwards. In which position is the corresponding indicator?
- Neutral position
- Laterally trimmed
- Nose-up position
- ***Nose-down position***

## 87. What describes "wing loading"?
- Wing area per weight
- Drag per wing area
- Drag per weight
- ***Weight per wing area***

## 88. The maximum permissible speed for an aircraft...
- is compulsory for aerobatics.
- cannot be achieved by a vertical nose down diving flight.
- ***must never be exceeded***
- should only be exceeded in still air.

## 89. Which answer describes the "manoeuvring speed"?
- ***Maximum speed with which abrupt, full control deflection***
- Maximum speed for steep turns
- Minimum speed for steep turns
- Initial speed for aerobatic figures

## 90. Through which factor listed below does the load factor increase during cruise flight?
- ***An upward gust***
- Higher aeroplane weight
- A forward centre of gravity
- Lower air density

## 91. Through which factor listed below does the load factor decrease during cruise flight?
- ***A downward gust***
- An aft centre of gravity
- Higher air density
- Lower aeroplane weight

## 92. Which statement regarding the "constant-speed propeller" is correct?
- The propeller keeps the airspeed constant
- The pitch of the propeller rises with higher speeds
- The RPM decreases with lower speeds
- ***The set RPM is kept constant by the motor power (MAP)***

## 93. The change in pitch at a propeller blade from the root to the tip ensures...
- ***a nearly constant load by a constant effective angle of attack over the entire length of the blade***
- the largest possible angle of attack at the blade tip.
- that the most thrust is produced at the blade root.
- that the most thrust is produced at the blade tip.

## 94. After an engine failure, the windmilling propeller...
- ***generates drag rather than thrust***
- generates neither thrust nor drag.
- improves the properties of the glide.
- has a greater pitch in feathered position.

## 95. During a descent at idle power with constant speed, the propeller lever is moved backwards. How do the propeller pitch and sink rate change?
- ***Propeller pitch is increased, sink rate is decreased***
- Propeller pitch is increased, sink rate is increased
- Propeller pitch is decreased, sink rate is decreased
- Propeller pitch is decreased, sink rate is increased

## 96. How is the spin influenced when power is added during a left spin with a clockwise spinning engine?
- ***It is enforced***
- It is not influenced at all
- It is strongly decreased
- It decreases minimally

## 97. Which answer defines the term "wing load"?
- Maximum mass an aircraft can carry
- Maximum take-off mass
- ***Mass of the aircraft per wing surface area***
- Mass of the air which the aircraft displaces

## 98. After increasing the angle of attack during flight with best gliding speed, initially...
- ***lift and drag increase***
- lift and drag decrease.
- lift decreases and drag increases.
- lift increases and drag decreases.

## 99. How is the balance of forces affected during a turn?
- ***Lift force must be increased to compensate for the sum of centrifugal and gravitational force***
- A lower lift force compensates for a lower net force as compared to level flight
- The horizontal component of the lift force during a turn is the centrifugal force
- The net force results from superposition of gravity and centripetal forces

## 100. The spin tendency of an aircraft is greater...
- with a forward center of gravity position.
- when trim is "nose-heavy".
- ***with an aft center of gravity position***
- when trim is "tail-heavy".
